Before we go any step further,
can all of you just type in
the pulumi command really quickly and
tell me if it asks you to log in or
create an account?
It might ask you to do that.
No?
Okay, cool, might ask you later,
but if it does, it's okay.
It's free, so it's not that big of a deal.
But let's move forward.
There's a few things that we have to
do to setting up pulumi with Node.js.
And I can actually show you
the documentation on it as well,
let's go to pulumi nodejs get started.
Go here and here we go.
So we've already done
the brew install process and
we've installed our language runtime.
In this sense, it's gonna be TypeScript,
right, and we've got Node js.
The next thing that it suggests us doing
is actually setting up
access to our AWS account.
We are gonna be using AWS, like I said,
so you will wanna make sure that you have
some type of credentials
that you can connect to.
And again, I can show you all that in
a second so we can get that set up.
We don't need to necessarily do this yet,
though.
We really don't because even though
we can set this up and run it,
we have other things to be more
concerned about right now,
which is like how we define these things.
So we're gonna just go ahead and
go forward to Create a New Project.
And so what I'm gonna do is I'm going
to follow these instructions here,
except for I'm just going to do,
there we go.
[LAUGH] Okay, so project name
is gonna be service-directory,
Centralized automation for
internal services.
Now, here's where we start getting into
the Pulumi stuff, which is pretty fun.
Pulumi has this concept of stacks, and
basically stacks are your environments.
So you'll have like a dev environment or
DevStack or ProdStack, whatever.
For right now, we're just gonna use dev,
so we'll hit Enter.
And then it's gonna ask us what
region we want to deploy it to.
I actually want to do us-west-2
because that's where I normally work.
And then it's gonna set up my project for
me.
So actually, as I said,
you can just disregard the npm in it,
it's gonna take care of all of that
with Pulumi new AWS TypeScript.
So let's all get that setup so
that we can move forward.
Also, we may have all just
throttled the Internet.
[LAUGH]
>> It did ask me to log in.
>> Did it?
>> Yeah, once you do the new thing,
it asks you to log in.
>> Okay, cool, yeah, so
if it asks you to log in,
just create an account really easily,
it should be entirely free.
And what's nice about it is if you've ever
used Terraform or anything like that,
it's basically like Terraform Cloud a bit,
where it can help you.
And if you wanna see,
you can actually go to pulumi.com,
Sign in, Email.
And so this is what Pulumi Cloud
can look like, essentially.
And here are your stacks.
So you'll see all of my stacks here that
I've got, and that's what we're gonna do,
we're gonna create a stack basically.
Yep.
>> So if I'm using Linode or
Oracle VM, I'll be able to use Pulumi?
>> Absolutely, yep.
Pulumi has what are called providers, and
again, if you use Terraform,
this is a very similar concept.
What were the ones again?
It was what and what?
>> Linode or Oracle VM.
>> So yep, there you go,
there's automation for Linode.
And if we go to pulumi oracle,
there we go, Oracle Cloud as well.
Now, I will be fair, I don't know
how far it supports these platforms.
But I do know that, yes,
it at least has beginning.
Pulumi is still newer than Terraform.
So Terraform's just been around
a lot longer, it has support for
a lot of other things,
but yeah, for example,
if you wanted to create an instance,
ComputeInstanceAgent, there you go.
It's probably this,
I don't know, but yeah,
you could definitely use
Pulumi with it for sure, yeah.
And we're gonna be using
AWS with this actually so.
Cool, everybody gets signed up?
Yep, cool, awesome.
Good, cool.
All right, so let's move forward.
So now that we've created our stack,
you'll notice that it says to performe
an initial deployment, run pulumi up.
Because you guys haven't gotten your
credentials yet or anything like that,
which you're more than welcome to if
you'd like to, we'll do it in a second,
don't worry about it.
I'm just gonna show you what it looks like
from my end, which is really nothing.
We're gonna look at our code
first before we do that, and so
if we see in our code,
we'll see that we have a Pulumi.dev.
We have a Pulumi.yaml, an index.ts,
a package.lock, package.json, and
tsconfig, right?
Let's talk about these
first two files here.
Well, the first file, Pulumi.dev.yaml,
is the actual stack configuration.
So Pulumi literally stores your
configuration in the source code.
And you might say, well,
what does that mean for secrets and stuff?
Pulumi can actually encrypt secrets and
store those in your repository as well.
So if you've ever found yourself in
a circumstance where you're like,
I don't know where to keep secrets,
or we don't have a really good structured
secrets service, you could lean on this.
You could basically encrypt your
secrets into the config here, and
then just whenever it runs,
it decrypts them and
then injects them into the configuration
the way that it needs.
So for example,
if I wanted to store a secret,
I could say, pulumi config set, right?
hi-chat, right?
And then we could say, hello-world, right?
Now, if I do this, and
then I go back to that, look at that,
there's my new option, right?
So if we were to take this one step
further and lean on the concept of stacks,
right, what I could do is I could say,
pulumi stack new.
Or wait, sorry, pulumi stack,
I think it might be init.
Yeah, and then I'm gonna say, you know
what, I actually want a prod one as well.
Now, there's nothing there yet
because I haven't actually added
anything to the configuration.
But if I do pulumi stack ls,
we'll see I have dev and prod, and
you'll see my star is currently on prod.
So if I go back here and then I save
that variable again, but this time,
it's hello-world-2.
[COUGH] Feature flagging,
right, go back in here.
Now, in prod, I have hello-world-2,
whereas in dev, I have hello-world, right?
So this is another reason
why Pulumi is really nice,
is it kind of is
completely out of the box.
It'll give you secrets for you,
it'll give you configuration for you, and
it also gives you that automation as well.
So for now, we're not gonna worry about
prod, I'm just gonna delete it cuz
I'm not worried about it, and I'm gonna
do pulumi stack select dev, okay?
Cuz that's what we care about.
Now, as I said, it created a whole
bunch of boilerplate for us.
So before we actually do pulumi up,
I'm gonna look at this index.ts.
So when you go back into index.ts,
what do we have?
Well, it would appear that Pulumi
decided to put something in there.
So in the off chance that I
would have done pulumi up,
I would have seen that it was gonna
try and create a random bucket.
I have a way of injecting my secrets,
so disregard the secrets --, but
essentially all you need to really know is
that it just injects my secrets directly
into the command for me so that I don't
accidentally share myself to all of you.
But if I do the main command,
which is aws s3 ls,
we should be able to see that, boom,
I am actually able to access my
buckets and see all that stuff.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm just
gonna say secrets -- pulumi up.
Again, you will just
need to do pulumi up and
you'll add the environment
variables to your show.
I'm doing this as a security precaution.
So, what do we have?
Well, we have a output of a link
that says View Live, right?
And you'll actually notice
that it's a full on URL.
And if we click on this link,
it actually takes us to Pulumi Cloud.
This is another thing that's
really nice about Pulumi,
its runs will synchronize with your
account so that you always have
a centralized place of accessing this
information if you need to later.
And again, it's very similar like
Terraform Cloud in that regard,
it is different in the sense that Pulumi
does not provide you with runners.
Terraform Cloud will actually let you run
on their infrastructure with their own
runners and stuff like that,
Pulumi is essentially just all you,
you run it yourself.
So if we look here, we can see
that in my output, I have changes.
So you see I have changes proposed,
the type of changes in this case,
it's gonna be pulumi, Stack Pulumi,
the name, service-directory-dev.
This is actually my stack.
Okay, so I'm creating a new stack,
cool, and
I'm creating the dev environment for that.
And then in that environment,
you'll notice that I'm creating
an aws s3 bucket, my bucket, right?
The TLDR on this is that stacks own
everything, right, in a given environment.
So the idea is that when we
create a bucket for the DevStack,
it's only going to create
it in that environment.
Until you go to prod and then run it
again, it won't ever get created.
So let's go back here, and
we're gonna actually say no,
that we don't wanna do this.
Because we've already got
a decent understanding of,
we know that we can lean on Pulumi for
automation.
We know that we're gonna write it in
the language that we want to, and
we know that we get the expected
result of, okay, cool,
if we connect it to our AWS account,
we should get some resources.